# Two_phase_locking_protocol_for_concurrency_control

Implementation will be using rigorous 2PL with the wound-wait method for dealing with deadlock.

The input to your program will be a file of transaction operations in a particular sequence. Each line has a single transaction operation. The possible operations are: b (begin transaction), r (read item), w (write item), and e (end transaction). Each operation will be followed by a transaction id that is an integer between 1 and 9.

For r and w operations, an item name follows between parentheses (item names are single letters from A to Z). Two example are given below.

Examples of two input files:

b1;   
b1;

r1 (Y);                                                                
r1(Y);

w1 (Y); <br />
w1(Y);

r1 (Z);   
r1(Z);

The program will have a transaction table, which will keep relevant information about each transaction. This includes transaction id, transaction timestamp, transaction state (active, blocked (waiting), aborted (cancelled), committed, etc.), list of items locked by the transaction, plus any other relevant information. For blocked transaction, the program will keep an ordered list of the operations of that transaction (from the input file) that are waiting to be executed if the transaction can be resumed. <br />

The program will have also have a lock table, which will keep relevant information about each locked data item. This includes item name, lock state (read (share) locked, or write (exclusive) locked), transaction id for the transaction holding the lock (for write locked) or list of transaction ids for the transactions holding the lock (for read locked), list of transaction ids for transactions waiting for the item to be unlocked (if any), plus any other relevant information.  <br />

The program will read the operations from an input file representing a schedule, and simulates the appropriate actions for each operation by referring to and updating the entries in the transaction table and lock table. The program will print a short summary of the simulation action that the program takes to simulate each command, including information on any updates to the system tables (transaction table and lock table), and if the simulation will commit or abort or block a transaction, or just allow the operation to execute.  <br />

The program contains: <br />
1.	In the src/main/java we have three packages each implementing different waiting methods for rigorous two-phase locking protocol. <br />
2.	We can check the functionality of  each of the waiting method by running the RigorousTwoPhaseLocking.java present in each package <br />
3.	 The data folder contains: <br />
•	The input files which have a series of transactions for which we simulate the behavior of the two-phase locking (2PL) protocol for concurrency control.<br />
•	The output files which is generated by the different waiting methods.<br />
output_woundwait.txt is generated by rigorous 2PL using wound wait method.<br />
output_waitdie.txt is generated by rigorous 2PL using wound wait method.<br />
output_cautious.txt is generated by rigorous 2PL using wound wait method.<br />
4.	The output file will be generated for the respective input file in the same input folder.<br />
5.	To see variations of input files( Such as Input 1, Input 2, Input 3, ... ), <br />
•	modify the input and output path in the RigorousTwoPhaseLocking.java file in different packages to see the different outputs, respectively. <br />




